---
layout: post
title: New DESI results revealed
date: 2025-03-19 15:00:00
description: 
tags: DESI dark energy Euclid ACT DES
categories: 
thumbnail: 
---


Today, at the Americal Physical Society meeting in Anaheim, California, we revealed for the first time the new cosmological measurements from the Dark Energy Spectroscopic Instrument (DESI), after three years of survey operations. These measurements provide new clues on the nature of dark energy, the physics of neutrinos, and our standard model of cosmology.

The news got a lot of press coverage (I was featured in [this article](https://www.nytimes.com/2025/03/19/science/space/astronomer-desi-dark-energy.html) in The New York Times!), and the results are still being widely discussed in different meetings and journal clubs. We definitely do not have all the answers, but these results are in line with the tantalizing hints of dynamical dark energy that we found last year with just one year of DESI data. 

On the same day, we also made our first official Data Release (DR1), which includes high-confidence redshifts for 18.7M objects, making it the largest sample of extragalactic redshifts ever assembled!

This was a big week for cosmology in general. We also had new results from the ACT Collaboration, the Dark Energy Survey, and a quick data release from the Euclid consortium, with lots of beautiful images and science! It will take me some weeks to digest all the information (and I need a short break after an intense week at Anaheim!), but I'm really excited to see what the future of cosmology will bring us.

